PD-129  Investigate way to better single-source product-specific diagrams (#1775)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/Shares/SMB/SMBMultichannel.md

---
title: "Setting Up SMB Multichannel"
description: "This article provides information on setting up SMB Multichannel."
weight: 60
aliases:
tags:
 - scalesmb
---

{{< toc >}}

SMB Multichannel allows servers to use multiple network connections simultaneously by combining the bandwidth of several Network Interface Cards (NICs) for better performance.

{{< hint warning >}}
SMB Multichannel does not function if you combine NICs into a LAGG. 
{{< /hint >}}

> ## Activate Multichannel in TrueNAS Scale

Reviewer: It is not incorrect to use Activate, but it reads more like a procedure step. Using gerunds makes it more like a description of the content in the section so I suggest using the ing form. If you want the reader to execute in a particular order, then I suggest using an introduction heading with the procedure overview and list the list the steps in sequence and you can do internal links to each section.
```suggestion
## Activating Multichannel in TrueNAS Scale
```

{{< hint info >}}
If you already have clients connected to SMB shares, disconnect them all before activating multichannel.
{{< /hint >}}

1. Go to **System Settings > Services** and stop the SMB service.
2. Go to **System Settings > Shell** and enter `midclt call smb.update '{"multichannel": true}'`

![SMBMultichannelActivate](/images/SCALE/22.12/SMBMultichannelActivate.png "Activate Multichannel")

3. Go back to **System Settings > Services** and start the SMB service.
4. Connect clients to their SMB shares.

> ### Validate Multichannel Activated In TrueNAS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Validating Multichannel Activated In TrueNAS
```

Go to **System Settings > Shell** and enter `midclt call smb.getparm 'server multi channel support' global`. If Multichannel is active, the shell returns `True`.

![SMBMultichannelValidateTrueNAS](/images/SCALE/22.12/SMBMultichannelValidateTrueNAS.png "Validate Multichannel")

> ### Validate Multichannel Activated In Windows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Validating Multichannel Activated In Windows
```

> Once you have connected a client to their SMB share, open Powershell as an administrator on a client, then enter `Get-SmbMultichannelConnection`. The terminal should list multiple Server IPs.

Reviewer: Instead of using once, which says do this only one time, use after if it comes after you do something in particular first, or use when if it doesn't require doing some other thing before this thing. Active voice, present tense
```suggestion
After you connect a client to their SMB share, open Powershell as an administrator on a client, then enter `Get-SmbMultichannelConnection`. The terminal should list multiple server IPs.
```

Author: Uh oh, I broke the "once" rule.
